# CyanoBLAST

A tool for analysing the proteome of newly discovered cyanobacterial species against the well documented, model cyanobacteria *Synechocystis* sp. PCC 6803 (PCC 6803). The analysis incorporates the use of the National Centre for Biotechnology Information’s (NCBI) basic local alignment search tool (BLAST). In this example, we use the newly discovered, fast-growing strain *Synechococcus* sp. PCC 11901 for comparison against PCC 6803.


To compare against the well-documented PCC 6803 species, the input data was based upon the findings from Baers *et al.* (2019). A modified version of Supplementary Table 3 from this paper was created and formed the starting point for all the input data required for PCC 6803’s proteome information. ADD FILE NAME OF COMPRESSED TABLE (ComparisonData.npz)


A second input file was then taken from Supplementary Tables 1, 3 or 4 found in Mills *et al.*, these three tables are split into different class of PCC 6803’s proteome: central metabolism and transport (centmet); characterised proteins not involved in central metabolism (known); uncharacterised proteins (unkown); as well as an option to compare agains all proteins (all). This requires input from the user under -c --category (see below).

## Requirements
CyanoBLAST is written in Python3.8 and requires NumPy, Pandas, openpyxl and bioservices (version 1.10 +) modules.


## Outline of CyanoBLAST.py
    CyanoBLAST -i -c -o [-n] [-e] [-r] [-s] [-h] [-v]

###### Required:
      -i, --input_database      Path to an existing local blast database directory generated from a .faa file
                                using blast+ 'makeblastdb'. If no local database exists, one can be
                                generated by passing [ -n / --new_database ] 
                      
      -c, --category            Category selection for searching proteome against local blast database.
                                Options:  all, centmet, known, unknown 
                      
      -o, --output              Name of output file (*.xlsx)

###### Optional:
      
      -n, --new_database            Flag to direct CyanoBlast to build a new database with the -i/--input \*.faa file
                                    and path specified by -np/--new_database_path 
 
      -np, --new_database_path      fPath to directory where the database should be built.
                                    If no path is provided, default path will be used: D:\PythonScripts\Argparse_test\Lib\Databases (CHANGE!)
 
      -e, --evalue                  Set the e-value to the desired number. Can be given as scientific notation ( e.g. 1e-8 )
                                    Default: 1
                        
      -r, --unedited_results        Save results without colour format
                                    Default: False
                            
      -s, --verbose                 Print to console as program runs 

###### Options:
      -h, --help                    Shows help message and exit 
  
      -v, --version                 Shows program's version number and exit  
  
###### References: 
Baers LL, Breckels LM, Mills LA, Gatto L, Deery MJ, Stevens TJ, et al. Proteome Mapping of a Cyanobacterium Reveals Distinct Compartment Organization and Cell-Dispersed Metabolism. Plant Physiol. 2019 Dec 1;181(4):1721–38.

Mills LA, McCormick AJ, Lea-Smith DJ. Current knowledge and recent advances in understanding metabolism of the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Biosci Rep. 2020 Apr 3; 40(BSR20193325).
